圣经名言录



001、Love your neighbor as yourself.
要爱人如己。
　　
002、Resentment kills a fool, and envy slays the simple.
忿怒害死愚妄人，嫉妒杀死痴迷人。
　　
003、Does a wild donkey bray when it has grass, or an ox bellow when it has fodder?
野驴有草岂能叫唤，牛有料，岂能吼叫。
　　
004、I will speak out in the anguish of my spirit, I will complain in the bitterness of my soul.
我灵愁苦，要发出言语。我心苦恼，要吐露哀情。
　　
005、Can papyrus grow tall where there is no marsh? Can reeds thrive without water?
蒲草没有泥，岂能发长。芦荻没有水，岂能生发。
　　
006、Is not wisdom found among the aged? Does not long life bring understanding?
年老的有智慧，寿高的有知识。
　　
007、The lamp of the wicked is snuffed out; the flame of his fire stops burning.
恶人的亮光必要熄灭。他的火焰必不照耀。
　　
008、that the mirth of the wicked is brief, the joy of the godless lasts but a moment.
恶人夸胜是暂时的，不敬虔人的喜乐，不过转眼之间。
　　
009、There is a mine for silver and a place where gold is refined. Iron is taken from the earth, and copper is smelted from ore.
银子有矿，炼金有方。铁从地里挖出，铜从石中溶化。
　　
010、Man does not comprehend its worth.
智慧的价值无人能知。
　　
011、The price of wisdom is beyond rubies.
智慧的价值胜过珍珠。
　　
012、To shun evil is understanding.
远离恶便是聪明。
　　
013、It is not only the old who are wise, not only the aged who understand what is right.
尊贵的不都有智慧。寿高的不都能明白公平。
　　
014、Surely no one lays a hand on a broken man when he cries for help in his distress.
人仆倒岂不伸手？遇灾难岂不求救呢？
　　
015、Age should speak; advanced years should teach wisdom.
年老的当先说话。寿高的当以智慧教训人。
　　
016、For the ear tests words as the tongue tastes food.
耳朵试验话语，好像上膛尝食物。
　　
017、Blessed is the man who does not walk in the counsel of the wicked or stand in the way of sinners or sit in the seat of mockers.
不从恶人的计谋，不站罪人的道路，不坐亵慢人的座位。
　　
018、He is like a tree planted by streams of water, which yields its fruit in season and whose leaf does not wither.
要像一棵树栽在溪水旁，按时候结果子，叶子也不枯干。
　　
019、He who is pregnant with evil and conceives trouble gives birth to disillusionment.
恶人因奸恶而劬劳。所怀的是毒害，所生的是虚假。
　　
020、like silver refined in a furnace of clay, purified seven times.
纯净的言语，如同银子在泥炉中炼过七次。
　　
021、The wicked freely strut about when what is vile is honored among men.
下流人在世人中升高，就有恶人到处游行。
　　
022、Has no slander on his tongue, who does his neighbor no wrong and casts no slur on his fellowman,
不以舌头谗谤人，不恶待朋友，也不随夥毁谤邻里。
　　
023、Do not be like the horse or the mule, which have no understanding but must be controlled by bit and bridle or they will not come to you.
不可像那无知的骡马，必用嚼环辔头勒住他，不然，就不能顺服。
　　
024、No king is saved by the size of his army; no warrior escapes by his great strength.
君王不能因兵多得胜。勇士不能因力大得救。
　　
025、Whoever of you loves life and desires to see many good days, keep your tongue from evil and your lips from speaking lies.
有何人喜好存活，爱慕长寿，得享美福，就要禁止舌头不出恶言，嘴唇不说诡诈的话。
　　
026、A righteous man may have many troubles.
义人多有苦难。
　　
027、Refrain from anger and turn from wrath; do not fret-it leads only to evil.
当止住怒气，离弃忿怒。不要心怀不平，以致作恶。
　　
028、For evil men will be cut off,
作恶的，必被剪除。
　　
029、Better the little that the righteous have than the wealth of many wicked.
一个义人所有的虽少，强过许多恶人的富馀。
　　
030、The wicked borrow and do not repay, but the righteous give generously.
恶人借货而不偿还。义人却恩待人，并且施舍。
　　
031、Turn from evil and do good; then you will dwell in the land forever.
离恶行善，就可永远安居。
　　
032、the righteous will inherit the land and dwell in it forever.
义人必承受地土，永居其上。
　　
033、The mouth of the righteous man utters wisdom, and his tongue speaks what is just.
义人的口谈论智慧，他的舌头讲说公平。
　　
034、As the deer pants for streams of water, so my soul pants for you.
我的心切慕你，如鹿切慕溪水。
　　
035、A man who has riches without understanding is like the beasts that perish.
人在尊贵中，而不醒悟，就如死亡的畜类一样。
　　
036、show no mercy to wicked traitors.
不要怜悯行诡诈的恶人。
　　
037、Defend the cause of the weak and fatherless; maintain the rights of the poor and oppressed.
当为贫寒的人和孤儿伸冤。当为困苦和穷乏的人施行公义。
　　
038、Love and faithfulness meet together; righteousness and peace kiss each other.
慈爱和诚实，彼此相遇。公义和平安，彼此相亲。
　　
039、How long will you simple ones love your simple ways? How long will mockers delight in mockery?
愚昧人喜爱愚昧，亵慢人喜欢亵慢。
　　
040、turning your ear to wisdom and applying your heart to understanding,
侧耳听智慧，专心求聪明。
　　
041、For the waywardness of the simple will kill them, and the complacency of fools will destroy them.
愚昧人背道，必杀己身，愚顽人安逸，必害己命。
　　
042、For she is more profitable than silver and yields better returns than gold.
因为得智慧胜过得银子，其利益强如精金。
　　
043、Seven that are detestable to him: haughty eyes, a lying tongue, hands that shed innocent blood, a heart that devises wicked schemes, feet that are quick to rush into evil, a false witness who pours out lies and a man who stirs up dissension among brothers.
　　
心所憎恶的共有七样，就是：高傲的眼，撒谎的舌，流无辜人血的手，图谋恶计的心，飞跑行恶的脚，吐谎言的假见证，并弟兄中布散分争的人。
　　
044、Wisdom, dwell together with prudence; I possess knowledge and discretion.
智慧以灵明为居所，又寻得知识和谋略。
　　
045、Stolen water is sweet; food eaten in secret is delicious!
偷来的水是甜的，暗吃的饼是好的。
　　
046、He who gathers crops in summer is a wise son, but he who sleeps during harvest is a disgraceful son.
夏天聚敛的，是智慧之子。收割时沉睡的，是贻羞之子。
　　
047、The man of integrity walks securely, but he who takes crooked paths will be found out.
行正直路的，步步安稳。走弯曲道的，必致败露。
　　
048、Love covers over all wrongs.
爱能遮掩一切过错。
　　
049、The wages of the righteous bring them life, but the income of the wicked brings them punishment.
义人的勤劳致生，恶人的进项致死。
　　
050、When pride comes, then comes disgrace.
骄傲来，羞耻也来。
　　
051、The integrity of the upright guides them, but the unfaithful are destroyed by their duplicity.
正直人的纯正，必引导自己。奸诈人的乖僻，必毁灭自己。
　　
052、When a wicked man dies, his hope perishes.
恶人一死，他的指望必灭绝。
　　
053、When the righteous prosper, the city rejoices; when the wicked perish, there are shouts of joy.
义人享福合城喜乐，恶人灭亡人都欢呼。
　　
054、A kind man benefits himself, but a cruel man brings trouble on himself.
仁慈的人，善待自己。残忍的人，扰害己身。
　　
055、Like a gold ring in a pig's snout is a beautiful woman who shows no discretion.
妇女美貌而无见识，如同金环带在猪鼻上。
　　
056、Whoever loves discipline loves knowledge.
喜爱管教的，就是喜爱知识。
　　
057、Truthful lips endure forever, but a lying tongue lasts only a moment.
口吐真言，永远坚立。舌说谎话，只存片时。
　　
058、He who guards his lips guards his life, but he who speaks rashly will come to ruin.
谨守口的，得保生命。大张嘴的，必致败亡。
　　
059、Where there are no oxen, the manger is empty.
家里无牛，槽^干净。
　　
060、Joy may end in grief.
快乐至极，就生愁苦。
　　
061、A simple man believes anything, but a prudent man gives thought to his steps.
愚蒙人是话都信，通达人处处谨慎。
　　
062、A quick-tempered man does foolish things, and a crafty man is hated.
轻易发怒的，行事愚妄。设立诡计的，被人恨恶。
　　
063、The simple inherit folly, but the prudent are crowned with knowledge.
愚蒙人得愚昧为产业。通达人得知识为冠冕。
　　
064、A large population is a king's glory, but without subjects a prince is ruined.
帝王荣耀在乎民多，君王衰败在乎民少。
　　
065、A patient man has great understanding, but a quick-tempered man displays folly.
不轻易发怒的，大有聪明。性情暴躁的，大显愚妄。
　　
066、Better a meal of vegetables where there is love than a fattened calf with hatred.
吃素菜彼此相爱，强如吃肥牛彼此相恨。
　　
067、Folly delights a man who lacks judgment, but a man of understanding keeps a straight course.
无知的人，以愚妄为乐。聪明的人，按正直而行。
　　
068、How good is a timely word!
谋士众多，所谋乃成。
　　
069、Pride goes before destruction, a haughty spirit before a fall.
骄傲在败坏以先，狂心在跌倒之前。
　　
070、A perverse man stirs up dissension, and a gossip separates close friends.
乖僻人播散分争。传舌的离间密友。
　　
071、Better a dry crust with peace and quiet than a house full of feasting, with strife.
设筵满屋，大家相争，不如有块乾饼，大家相安。
　　
072、A wicked man listens to evil lips; a liar pays attention to a malicious tongue.
行恶的留心听奸诈之言。说谎的侧耳听邪恶之语。
　　
073、Children's children are a crown to the aged, and parents are the pride of their children.
子孙为老人的冠冕，父亲是儿女的荣耀。
　　
074、Better to meet a bear robbed of her cubs than a fool in his folly.
宁可遇见丢崽子的母熊，不可遇见正行愚妄的愚昧人。
　　
075、If a man pays back evil for good, evil will never leave his house.
以恶报善的，祸患必不离他的家。
　　
076、A man of perverse heart does not prosper; he whose tongue is deceitful falls into trouble.
心存邪僻的，寻不着好处。舌弄是非的，陷在祸患中。
　　
077、It is not good to punish an innocent man, or to flog officials for their integrity.
判罚义人为不善，责打君子为不义。
　　
078、Even a fool is thought wise if he keeps silent, and discerning if he holds his tongue.
愚昧人若静默不言，也可算为智慧。闭口不说，也可算为聪明。
　　
079、A fool finds no pleasure in understanding ,but delights in airing his own opinions.
愚昧人不喜爱明哲，只喜爱显露心意。
　　
080、When wickedness comes, so does contempt, and with shame comes disgrace.
恶人来，藐视随来。羞耻到，辱骂同到。
　　
081、A fool's lips bring him strife, and his mouth invites a beating.
愚昧人张嘴启争端，开口招鞭打。
　　
082、One who is slack in his work is brother to one who destroys.
作工懈怠的，与浪费人为弟兄。
　　
083、Before his downfall a man's heart is proud, but humility comes before honor.
败坏之先，人心骄傲。尊荣以前，必有谦卑。
　　
084、The heart of the discerning acquires knowledge; the ears of the wise seek it out.
聪明人的心得知识，智慧人的耳求知识。
　　
085、The first to present his case seems right, till another comes forward and questions him.
先诉情由的，似乎有理。但邻舍来到，就察出实情。
　　
086、An offended brother is more unyielding than a fortified city.
弟兄结怨，劝他和好，比取坚固城还难。
　　
087、It is to his glory to overlook an offense.
宽恕人的过失，便是自己的荣耀。
　　
088、whoever is led astray by them is not wise.
因酒错误的，就无智慧。
　　
089、Wine is a mocker and beer a brawler.
酒能使人亵慢，浓酒使人喧嚷。
　　
090、It's no good, it's no good!" says the buyer; then off he goes and boasts about his purchase.
买物的说，不好，不好，及至买去，他便自夸。
　　
091、The glory of young men is their strength, gray hair the splendor of the old.
强壮乃少年的荣耀。白发为老年人的尊荣。
　　
092、The violence of the wicked will drag them away.
恶人的强暴，必将自己扫除。
　　
093、He who sows wickedness reaps trouble.
撒罪孽的，必收灾。
　　
094、for a prostitute is a deep pit and a wayward wife is a narrow well.
妓女是深坑。外女是窄阱。
　　
095、A righteous man falls seven times, he rises again.
义人虽七次跌倒，仍必兴起。
　　
096、A word aptly spoken is like apples of gold in settings of silver.
一句话说得合宜，就如金苹果在银网子里。
　　
097、A gentle tongue can break a bone.
柔和的舌头，能折断骨头。
　　
098、Like a lame man's legs that hang limp.
瘸子的脚，空存无用。
　　
099、Without wood a fire goes out; without gossip a quarrel dies down.
火缺了柴，就必熄灭。无人传舌，争竞便止息。
　　
100、Let another praise you, and not your own mouth.
要别人夸奖你，不可用口自夸。
　　
101、Better is open rebuke than hidden love.
当面的责备，强如背地的爱情。
　　
102、Wounds from a friend can be trusted, but an enemy multiplies kisses.
朋友加的伤痕，出於忠诚，仇敌连连亲嘴，却是多馀。
　　
103、He who is full loathes honey, but to the hungry even what is bitter tastes sweet.
人吃饱了，厌恶蜂房的蜜。人饥饿了，一切苦物都觉甘甜。
　　
104、A neighbor nearby than a brothe* **r away.
相近的邻舍，强如远方的弟兄。
　　
105、As iron sharpens iron, so one man sharpens another.
铁磨铁，磨出刃来。朋友相感，也是如此。
　　
106、The crucible for silver and the furnace for gold, but man is tested by the praise he receives.
鼎为炼银，炉为炼金，人的称赞也试炼人。
　　
107、When the hay is removed and new growth appears.
干草割去，嫩草发现，
　　
108、The wicked man flees though no one pursues, but the righteous are as bold as a lion.
恶人虽无人追赶也逃跑，义人却胆壮像狮子。
　　
109、A ruler who oppresses the poor is like a driving rain that leaves no crops.
穷人欺压贫民，好像暴雨冲没粮食。
　　
110、Better a poor man whose walk is blameless than a rich man whose ways are perverse.
行为纯正的穷乏人，胜过行事乖僻的富足人。
　　
111、He who leads the upright along an evil path will fall into his own trap.
诱惑正直人行恶道的，必掉在自己的坑里。
　　
112、He who works his land will have abundant food, but the one who chases fantasies will have his fill of poverty.
耕种自己田地的，必得饱食。追随虚浮的，足受穷乏。
　　
113、He who trusts in himself is a fool.
心中自是的，便是愚昧人。
　　
114、Whoever flatters his neighbor is spreading a net for his feet.
谄媚邻舍的，就是设网罗绊他的脚。
　　
115、Mockers stir up a city, but wise men turn away anger.
亵慢人煽惑通城，智慧人止息众怒。
　　
116、A child left to himself disgraces his mother.
放纵的儿子，使母亲羞愧。
　　
117、A man's pride brings him low, but a man of lowly spirit gains honor.
人的高傲，必使他卑下。心里谦逊的，必得尊荣。
　　
118、The accomplice of a thief is his own enemy.
与盗贼分赃，是恨恶自己的性命。
　　
119、The righteous detest the dishonest; the wicked detest the upright.
为非作歹的，被义人憎嫌。行事正直的，被恶人憎恶。
　　
120、Ants are creatures of little strength, yet they store up their food in the summer; coneys are creatures of little 　　power, yet they make their home in the crags.
蚂蚁是无力之类，却在夏天豫备粮食。沙番是软弱之类，却在磐石中造房。
　　
121、For as churning the milk produces butter, and as twisting the nose produces blood, so stirring up anger produces strife.
摇牛奶必成奶油，扭鼻子必出血。照样，激动怒气必起争端。
　　
122、All streams flow into the sea, yet the sea is never full.
江河都往海里流，海却不满。
　　
123、What has been will be again, what has been done will be done again; there is nothing new under the sun.
已有的事，後必再有。已行的事，後必再行。日光之下并无新事。
　　
124、What is twisted cannot be straightened; what is lacking cannot be counted.
弯曲的不能变直，缺少的不能足数。
　　
125、For with much wisdom comes much sorrow; the more knowledge, the more grief.
因为多有智慧，就多有愁烦。加增知识的，就加增忧伤。
　　
126、Wisdom is better than folly, just as light is better than darkness.
智慧胜过愚昧，如同光明胜过黑暗。
　　
127、The wise man has eyes in his head, while the fool walks in the darkness.
智慧人的眼目光明，愚昧人在黑暗里行。
　　
128、If two lie down together, they will keep warm.
二人同睡，就都暖和。
　　
129、A cord of three strands is not quickly broken.
三股合成的绳子，不容易折断。
　　
130、Better a poor but wise youth than an old but foolish king who no longer knows how to take warning.
贫穷而有智慧的少年人，胜过年老不肯纳谏的愚昧王。
　　
131、As a dream comes when there are many cares, so the speech of a fool when there are many words.
事务多，就令人作梦，言语多，就显出愚昧。
　　
132、It is better not to vow than to make a vow and not fulfill it.
许愿不还，不如不许。
　　
133、Much dreaming and many words are meaningless.
多梦和多言，其中多有虚幻。
　　
134、Whoever loves money never has money enough; whoever loves wealth is never satisfied with his income. This too is meaningless.
贪爱银子的，不因得银子知足。贪爱丰富的，也不因得利益知足。这也是虚空。5：10
　　
135、The sleep of a laborer is sweet, whether he eats little or much.
劳碌的人，不拘吃多吃少，睡得香甜。
　　
136、Naked a man comes from his mother's womb, and as he comes, so he departs.
怎样从母胎赤身而来，也必照样赤身而去。
　　
137、A good name is better than fine perfume.
名誉如美好的膏油。
　　
138、The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning, but the heart of fools is in the house of pleasure.
智慧人的心，在遭丧之家。愚昧人的心，在快乐之家。
　　
139、It is better to heed a wise man's rebuke than to listen to the song of fool*.
听智慧人的责备，强如听愚昧人的歌唱。
　　
140、**tortion turns a wise man into a fool, and a bribe corrupts the heart.
勒索使智慧人变为愚妄。贿赂能败坏人的慧心。
　　
141、Patience is better than pride.
存心忍耐的，胜过居心骄傲的。
　　
142、The end of a matter is better than its beginning.
事情的终局，强如事情的起头。
　　
143、For anger resides in the lap of fools.
恼怒存在愚昧人的怀中。
　　
144、That wisdom preserves the life of its possessor.
惟独智慧能保全智慧人的生命。
　　
145、The stupidity of wickedness and the madness of folly.
邪恶为愚昧，愚昧为狂妄。
　　
146、A live dog is better off than a dead lion!
活着的狗，比死了的狮子更强。
　　
147、Wisdom is better than weapons of war.
智慧胜过打仗的兵器。
　　
148、One sinner destroys much good.
一个罪人，能败坏许多善事。
　　
149、A little folly outweighs wisdom and honor.
一点愚昧，也能败坏智慧和尊荣。
　　
150、Calmness can lay great errors to rest.
柔和能免大过。
　　
151、Whoever digs a pit may fall into it.
挖陷坑的，自己必掉在其中。
　　
152、Whoever quarries stones may be injured by them; whoever splits logs may be endangered by them.
凿开石头的，必受损伤。擘开木头的，必遭危险。
　　
153、If the ax is dull and its edge unsharpened, more strength is needed.
铁器钝了，若不将刃磨快，就必多费气力。
　　
154、More strength is needed but skill will bring success.
得智慧指教，便有益处。
　　
155、Words from a wise man's mouth are gracious, but a fool is consumed by his own lips.
智慧人的口，说出恩言。愚昧人的嘴，吞灭自己。
　　
156、Wine makes life merry, but money is the answer for everything.
酒能使人快活，钱能叫万事应心。
　　
157、If clouds are full of water, they pour rain upon the earth.
云若满了雨，就必倾倒在地上。
　　
158、Whoever watches the wind will not plant; whoever looks at the clouds will not reap.
看风的必不撒种。望云的必不收割。
　　
159、Before the pitcher is shattered at the spring, or the wheel broken at the well.
瓶子在泉旁损坏，水轮在井口破烂。
　　
160、The ax is already at the root of the trees, and every tree that does not produce good fruit will be cut down and thrown into the fire.
斧子已经放在树根上，凡不结好果子的树，就砍下来，丢在火里。
　　
161、Neither do people light a lamp and put it under a bowl. Instead they put it on its stand, and it gives light to everyone in the house.
人点灯，不放在斗底下，是放在灯台上，就照亮一家的人。
　　
162、Anyone who murders will be subject to judgment.
凡杀人的，难免受审判。
　　
163、Eye for eye, and tooth for tooth.
以眼还眼，以牙还牙。
　　
164、If someone strikes you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also.
有人打你的右脸，连左脸也转过来由他打。
　　
165、If someone wants to sue you and take your tunic, let him have your cloak as well.
有人想要告你，要拿你的里衣，连外衣也由他拿去。
　　
166、If someone forces you to go one mile, go with him two miles.
有人强逼你走一里路，你就同他走二里。
　　
167、Give to the one who asks you, and do not turn away from the one who wants to borrow from you.
有求你的，就给他。有向你借贷的，不可推辞。
　　
168、Love your neighbor and hate your enemy.
当爱你的邻舍，恨你的仇敌。
　　
169、Sun to rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on the righteous and the unrighteous.
日头照好人，也照歹人，降雨给义人，也给不义的人。
　　
170、Not to do your 'acts of righteousness' before men.
不可将善事行在人的面前。
　　
171、When you give to the needy, do not announce it with trumpets.
你施舍的时候，不可在你前面吹号。
　　
172、When you give to the needy, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing.
你施舍的时候，不要叫左手知道右手所作的。
　　
173、When you pray, go into your room.
要叫你施舍的事行在暗中。
　　
174、Forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors.
免我们的债，如同我们免了人的债。
　　
175、The eye is the lamp of the body. If your eyes are good, your whole body will be full of light.
眼睛就是身上的灯。你的眼睛若了亮，全身就光明。
　　
176、If your eyes are bad, your whole body will be full of darkness.
你的眼睛若昏花，全身就黑暗。
　　
177、Each day has enough trouble of its own.
一天的难处一天当。
　　
178、Do not judge, or you too will be judged.
你们不要论断人，免得你们被论断。
　　
179、For in the same way you judge others, you will be judged.
因为你们怎样论断人，也必怎样被论断。
　　
180、Why do you look at the speck of sawdust in your brother's eye and pay no attention to the plank in your own 　　eye?
为甚麽看见你弟兄眼中有刺，却不想自己眼中有梁木呢。
　　
181、How can you say to your brother, 'Let me take the speck out of your eye,' when all the time there is a plank in 　　your own eye?
你自己眼中有梁木，怎能对你弟兄说，容我去掉你眼中的刺呢。
　　
182、First take the plank out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to remove the speck from your brother's 　　eye.
先去掉自己眼中的梁木，然後才能看得清楚，去掉你弟兄眼中的刺。
　　
183、Do not give dogs what is sacred; do not throw your pearls to pigs.
不要把圣物给狗，也不要把你们的珍珠丢在猪前。
　　
184、For everyone who asks receives.
凡祈求的就得着。
　　
185、If his son asks for bread, will give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, will give him a snake?
谁有儿子求饼，反给他石头呢？求鱼，反给他蛇呢？
　　
186、For wide is the gate and broad is the road that leads to destruction, and many enter through it.
引到灭亡，那门是宽的，路是大的，进去的人也多。
　　
187、Small is the gate and narrow the road that leads to life, and only a few find it.
引到永生，那门是窄的，路是小的，找著的人也少。
　　
188、They come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ferocious wolves.
外面披著羊皮，里面却是残暴的狼。
　　
189、By their fruit you will recognize them.
凭著他们的果子，就可以认出他们来。
　　
190、Do people pick grapes from thornbushes, or figs from thistles?
荆棘上岂能摘葡萄呢。蒺藜里岂能摘无花果呢。
　　
191、A wise man who built his house on the rock.
一个聪明人，把房子盖在磐石上。
　　
192、A foolish man who built his house on sand.
无知的人，把房子盖在沙土上。
　　
193、Let the dead bury their own dead.
任凭死人埋葬他们的死人。
　　
194、How can the guests of the bridegroom mourn while he is with them?
新郎和陪伴之人同在的时候，陪伴之人岂能哀恸呢。
　　
195、No one sews a patch of unshrunk cloth on an old garment, for the patch will pull away from the garment, ****** the tear worse.
没有人把新布补在旧衣服上。因为所补上的，反带坏了那衣服，破的就更大了。
　　
196、Neither do men pour new wine into old wineskins. If they do, the skins will burst, the wine will run out and the、 wineskins will be ruined.
没人把新酒装在旧皮袋里。若是这样，皮袋就裂开，酒漏出来，连皮袋也坏了。
　　
197、Freely you have received, freely give.
白白的得来，也要白白的舍去。
　　
198、Therefore be as shrewd as snakes and as innocent as doves.
灵巧像蛇，驯良像鸽子。
　　
199、A student is not above his teacher, nor a servant above his master.
学生不能高过先生，仆人不能高过主人。
　　
200、There is nothing concealed that will not be disclosed, or hidden that will not be made known.
掩盖的事，没有不露出来的。隐藏的事，没有不被人知道的。
　　
201、In the dark, speak in the daylight.
暗中告诉你们的，你们要在明处说出来。
　　
202、Whoever finds his life will lose it.
得着生命的，将要失丧生命。
　　
203、He who has ears, let him hear.
有耳可听的，就应当听。
　　
204、Wisdom is proved right by her actions.
智慧之子，总以智慧为是。
　　
205、What goes into a man's mouth does not make him 'unclean,' but what comes out of his mouth, that is what 　　makes him 'unclean.'
入口的不能污秽人，出口的乃能污秽人。
　　
206、If a blind man leads a blind man, both will fall into a pit.
若是瞎子领瞎子，两个人都要掉在坑里。
　　
207、It is hard for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven.
财主进天国是难的。
　　
208、It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God.
骆驼穿过针的眼，比财主进神的国还容易呢。
　　
209、Give to Caesar what is Caesar's, and to God what is God's.
该撒的物当归给该撒，神的物当归给神。
　　
210、For whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted.
凡自高的必降为卑，自卑的必升为高。
　　
211、First clean the inside of the cup and dish, and then the outside also will be clean.
先洗净杯盘的里面，好叫外面也乾净了。
　　
212、You are like whitewashed tombs, which look beautiful on the outside but on the inside are full of dead men's 　　bones and everything unclean.
粉饰的坟墓，外面好看，里面却装满了死人的骨头，和一切的污秽。
　　
213、He who stands firm to the end will be saved.
惟有忍耐到底的，必然得救。
　　
214、For everyone who has will be given more, and he will have an abundance. Whoever does not have, even what he has will be taken from him.
凡有的，还要加给他，叫他有馀。没有的，连他所有的，也要夺过来。
　　
215、for all who draw the sword will die by the sword.
凡动刀的，必死在刀下。
　　
216、It is not the healthy who need a doctor.
健康的人用不著医生。
　　
217、In fact, no one can enter a strong man's house.
没有人能进壮士家里抢夺他的家具。
　　
218、For whatever is hidden is meant to be disclosed, and whatever is concealed is meant to be brought out into the open.
掩藏的事，没有不显出来的。隐瞒的事，没有不露出来的。
　　
219、With the measure you use, it will be measured to you--and even more.
你们用甚麽量器量给人，也必用甚麽量器量给你们，并且要多给你们。
　　
220、As soon as the grain is ripe, he puts the sickle to it.
谷既熟了，就用镰刀去割。
　　
221、For whoever wants to save his life will lose it.
凡救自己生命的，必丧掉生命。
　　
222、If anyone wants to be first, he must be the very last, and the servant of all.
有人愿意作首先的，他必作众人末後的，作众人的用人。
　　
223、For whoever is not against us is for us.
不敌挡我们的，就是帮助我们的。
　　
224、It is better for you to enter life maimed than with two hands to go into hell, where the fire never goes out.
缺了肢体进入永生，强如有两只手落到地狱，入那不灭的火里去。
　　
225、It is better for you to enter life crippled than to have two feet and be thrown into hell.
瘸腿进入永生，强如有两只脚被丢在地狱里。
　　
226、Many who are first will be last, and the last first.
有许多在前的将要在後，在後的将要在前。
　　
227、Whoever wants to be first must be slave of all.
谁愿为首，就必作众人的仆人。
　　
228、Don't extort money and don't accuse people falsely.
不要以强暴待人，也不要讹诈人。
　　
229、Do to others as you would have them do to you.
你们愿意人怎样待你们，你们也要怎样待人。
　　
230、Even 'sinners' love those who love them.
罪人也爱那爱他们的人。
　　
231、Lend to them without expecting to get anything back.
要借给人不指望偿还。
　　
232、Forgive, and you will be forgiven.
要饶恕人，就必蒙饶恕。
　　
233、Do not judge, and you will not be judged.
不要论断人，就不被论断。
　　
234、Do not condemn, and you will not be condemned.
不要定人的罪，就不被定罪。
　　
235、Give, and it will be given to you.
你们要给人，就必有给你们的。
　　
236、No good tree bears bad fruit, nor does a bad tree bear good fruit.
没有好树结坏果子。也没有坏树结好果子。
　　
237、For out of the overflow of his heart his mouth speaks.
心里所充满的，口里就说出来。
　　
238、He who has been forgiven little loves little.
赦免少的，他的爱就少。
　　
239、No one who puts his hand to the plow and looks back is fit for service in the kingdom of God.
手扶著犁向後看的，不配进神的国。
　　
240、For the worker deserves his wages.
工人得工价，是应当的。
　　
241、Any kingdom divided against itself will be ruined, and a house divided against itself will fall.
凡一国自相分争，就成为荒场。凡一家自相分争，就必败落。
　　
242、He who is not with me is against me.
不与我相合的，就是敌我的。
　　
243、A man's life does not consist in the abundance of his possessions.
人的生命，不在乎家道丰富。
　　
244、Life is more than food, and the body more than clothes.
生命胜於饮食，身体胜於衣裳。
　　
245、From everyone who has been given much, much will be demanded.
多给谁，就向谁多取。
　　
246、From the one who has been entrusted with much, much more will be asked.
多托谁，就向谁多要。
　　
247、Whoever can be trusted with very little can also be trusted with much, and whoever is dishonest with very little will also be dishonest with much.
人在最小的事上忠心，在大事上也忠心。在最小的事上不义，在大事上也不义。
　　
248、Where there is a dead body, there the vultures will gather.
尸首在那里，鹰也必聚在那里。
　　
249、Everyone who does evil hates the light.
凡作恶的便恨光。
　　
250、He can do only what he sees his Father doing, because whatever the Father does the Son also does.
看见父所作的，子才能作。父所作的事，子也照样作。
　　
251、Those who have done good will rise to live, and those who have done evil will rise to be condemned.
行善的复活得生，作恶的复活定罪。
　　
252、Stop judging by mere appearances, and make a right judgment.
不可按外貌断定是非，总要按公平断定是非。
　　
253、The testimony of two men is valid.
两个人的见证是真的。
　　
254、Everyone who sins is a slave to sin.
所有犯罪的，就是罪的奴仆。
　　
255、The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep.
好牧人为羊舍命。
　　
256、A man who walks by day will not stumble.
人在白日走路，就不至跌倒。
　　
257、Walk while you have the light, before darkness overtakes you.
应当趁著有光行走，免得黑暗临到你们。
　　
258、Although they claimed to be wise, they became fools.
自称为聪明，反成了愚拙。
　　
259、You, then, who teach others, do you not teach yourself? You who preach against stealing, do you steal?
你既是教导别人，还不教导自己么？你讲说人不可偷窃，自己还偷窃么？
　　
260、Suffering produces perseverance; perseverance, character.
患难生忍耐，忍耐生老练。
　　
261、If it is leadership, let him govern diligently.
治理的，就当殷勤。
　　
262、Be joyful in hope, patient in affliction.
在指望中要喜乐。在患难中要忍耐。
　　
263、Do not be conceited.
不要自以为聪明。
　　
264、Be careful to do what is right in the eyes of everybody.
众人以为美的事，要留心去作。
　　
265、If it is possible, as far as it depends on you, live at peace with everyone.
若是能行，总要尽力与众人和睦。
　　
266、Love does no harm to its neighbor.
爱是不加害与人的。
　　
267、Put aside the deeds of darkness and put on the armor of light.
脱去暗昧的行为，带上光明的兵器。
　　
268、Let us behave decently, as in the daytime, not in orgies and drunkenness.
行事为人要端正，好像行在白昼。
　　
269、Not to put any stumbling block or obstacle in your brother's way.
不给弟兄放下绊脚人之物。
　　
270、Let us therefore make every effort to do what leads to peace
务要追求和睦的事。
　　
271、Wise about what is good, and innocent about what is evil.
在善事上聪明，在恶上愚拙。
　　
272、Do not deceive yourselves.
人不可自欺。
　　
273、No more boasting about men!
不可拿人夸口。
　　
274、You have ten thousand guardians in Christ, you do not have many fathers.
师傅虽有一万，为父的却是不多。
　　
275、A little yeast works through the whole batch of dough.
一点面酵能使全团发起来。
　　
276、Whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and whoever sows generously will also reap generously.
少种的少收，多种的多收。
　　
277、Though all its parts are many, they form one body.
肢体虽多，仍是一个身子。
　　
278、If the whole body were an eye, where would the sense of hearing be? If the whole body were an ear, where 　　would the sense of smell be?
若全身是眼，从那里听声呢。若全身是耳，从那里闻味呢。
　　
279、While our presentable parts need no special treatment.
俊美的肢体，自然用不著装饰。
　　
280、In regard to evil be infants, but in your thinking be adults.
在恶事上要作婴孩，在心志上总要作大人。
　　
281、For we cannot do anything against the truth, but only for the truth.
凡事不能敌挡真理，只能扶助真理。
　　
282、Does not judge by external appearance.
不以外貌取人。
　　
283、Having lost all sensitivity, they have given themselves over to sensuality so as to indulge in every kind of impurity, with a continual lust for more.
良心既然丧尽，就放纵私欲，贪行种种的污秽。
　　
284、Therefore each of you must put off falsehood.
要弃绝谎言。
　　
285、Do not let the sun go down while you are still angry.
不可含怒到日落。
　　
286、Do not let any unwholesome talk come out of your mouths.
污秽的言语，一句不可出口。
　　
287、Let no one deceive you with empty words.
不要被人虚浮的话欺哄。
　　
288、Everything exposed by the light becomes visible。
凡事受了责备，就被光显明出来。
　　
289、Do not get drunk on wine, which leads to debauchery.
不要醉酒，酒能使人放荡。
　　
290、With the belt of truth buckled around your waist, with the breastplate of righteousness in place.
用真理当作带子束腰，用公义当作护心镜遮胸。
　　
291、Each of you should look not only to your own interests, but also to the interests of others.
各人不要单顾自己的事，也要顾别人的事。
　　
292、Forgetting what is behind and straining toward what is ahead.
忘记背後努力面前的。
　　
293、Test everything. Hold on to the good.
凡事察验，善美的要持守。
　　
294、If a man will not work, he shall not eat.
若有人不肯作工，就不可吃饭。
　　
295、Never tire of doing what is right.
行善不可丧志。
　　
296、The hardworking farmer should be the first to receive a share of the crops.
劳力的农夫，理当先得粮食。
　　
297、It is of no value, and only ruins those who listen.
不可为言语争辩，这事没有益处的。
　　
298、Avoid godless chatter.
要远避世俗的谈。
　　
299、Don't have anything to do with foolish and stupid arguments.
愚拙无学问的辩论，总要弃绝。
　　
300、The builder of a house has greater honor than the house itself.
建造房屋的比房屋更尊荣。
　　
301、Keep on loving each other as brothers.
务要存弟兄相爱的心。
　　
302、The testing of you* **ith develops perseverance.
信心经过试验就生忍耐。
　　
303、He who doubts is like a wave of the sea, blown and tossed by the wind.
疑惑的人，就像海中的波浪，被风吹动翻腾。
　　
304、He is a double-minded man, unstable in all he does.
心怀二意的人，在他一切所行的路上，都没有定见。
　　
305、When we put bits into the mouths of horses to make them obey us, we can turn the whole animal.
若把嚼环放在马嘴里，叫他顺服，就能调动他的全身。
　　
306、The tongue is a small part of the body, but it makes great boasts.
舌头在百体里也是最小的，却能说大话。
　　
307、A great forest is set on fire by a small spark.
最小的火能点著最大的树林。
　　
308、Out of the same mouth come praise and cursing.
颂赞和咒诅从一个口里出来。
　　
309、For where you have envy and selfish ambition, there you find disorder and every evil practice.
何处有嫉妒分争，就在何处有扰乱和各样的坏事。